When you hear people talk about methods and properties when it comes to objects or classes you're going
to hear him use two words a lot you'll hear him use instance methods and properties or static methods
and properties.
So far what we've been working with is instance methods or properties so for example here the idea behind
an instance method or a property is you're defining this functionality on the class that you want to
have an instance of with your object that you instantiate from this class.
So this method isn't meant to be accessed directly from this class.
Rather you want it to be included in instantiations of your class.
So you want it to be available on objects created from this class static methods and properties on the
other hand are methods and properties that are meant to be directly accessed on that class and they're
really useful for doing things like defining utility functions especially if you're writing the same
functions over and over again.
You might use a class to group together a bunch of static methods.
That way you don't have to repeat yourself a lot and you can just access these methods without having
to instantiate the class every time you need them.
So if we wanted to do this inside of yes file we would do like a function might do calculate like so
and just leave it like this.
And then after that instead of adding it on the prototype chain which would make it an instance method
we added directly to this constructor function right here.
So we might do something like add and just set this equal to a function that takes two values so we'll
do 1 and 2 and then after that we just canceled or log the result.
So it's just about one plus the two and that should be Course into a string so now I can access calculate
add and you'll see one and two definitely equals three inside of six.
However it's a little bit easier than that.
What we can do instead if I comment this out and go down a little bit is I can create a class and I'll
call it calculate calculate like so curly braces and inside of here.
I'll do my constructor.
Even though there's nothing that I really need to put inside of it and then I can just use the keyword
static and then maybe area and this is going to be a concise method syntax so it would be the length
and the width and inside of here we'll just cancel that log length times with.
And we can spell with correctly.
Like so there we go.
Now we got it.
And so once I do this then we can just access it directly.
So we'll do calculate da area pass in two by four and you'll see that it actually just prints out.
So a nice way like I said to group together some utility functions that you find yourself using over
and over again.
And now you don't even have to instantiate the class to get access to them since it's static.